          Contracts (Remedies for Breach of Contract) Law, 1970

                                       Chapter One： General Provisions




 Chapter One： General Provisions



 1. (a) In this law -

 "Breach" - Act or omission in contravention of a contract;

 "Injured party" - The person entitled to performance of a contract which has
 been broken;

 "Enforcement" - Whether by an order for the discharge of a monetary
 obligation, by some other mandatory order or by a restraining order, and
 includes enforcement by an order for the repair or removal of the consequences
 of a breach ;

 "Damage" - Including a prevention of profit.

 (b) Every reference in this law to a breach of contract will be taken to
 include the breach of any of its obligations.


  Definitions

 2. When a contract has been breached, the injured party is entitled to claim
 its enforcement or to rescind the contract, and in addition to or in lieu of
 one of the said remedies he is entitled to compensation, all as provided in
 this law.


  Remedies for Injured Party



                                          Chapter Two： Remedies




 Chapter Two： Remedies




pd4ml evaluation copy. visit http://pd4ml.com
 Article One: Enforcement of Contract



 3. The injured party is entitled to enforcement of the contract, unless in any
 of the following cases:

 (1) It is impossible to perform the contract;

 (2) Enforcement of the contract consists of compelling the performance or
 acceptance of personal work or of a personal service;

 (3) Implementation of the enforcement order requires an unreasonable level of
 supervision on behalf of a court or an execution office;

 (4) Under the circumstances of the case, enforcement of the contract is
 unjust.


  Right of Enforcement

 4. The court may make enforcement of a contract conditional upon fulfillment
 of the injured party's obligations or upon assurance of their fulfillment or
 upon other conditions that necessarily result from the contract under the
 circumstances of the case.


  Conditions of Enforcement

 5. When an enforcement order is made in respect of an obligation to transfer
 the ownership of a property right and that transfer requires registration in a
 register kept under any Law, the registration will be made by virtue of the
 enforcement order and in accordance with its provisions, as if it were made on
 the application of the parties.


  Enforcement in the Case of a Transaction that Requires Registration




 Article Two: Rescission of Contract




pd4ml evaluation copy. visit http://pd4ml.com
 6. For purposes of this article, "fundamental breach" - a breach about which
 it may be assumed that a reasonable person would not have entered into the
 contract had he foreseen the breach and its consequences, or a breach about
 which it is agreed in the contract to regard it as fundamental; a sweeping
 stipulation in a contract, which makes breaches fundamental without
 differentiating between them, is invalid, unless it was reasonable at the time
 the contract was concluded.


  Definition

 7. (a) The injured party is entitled to rescind the contract, if its breach
 was fundamental.

 (b) When the breach of the contract is not fundamental, the

 injured party may rescind the contract if he has first given the breaching
 party an extension of time for its performance, and the contract has not been
 performed within a reasonable time after the extension was given, unless, -
 under the circumstances of the case, rescission of the contract is unjust; the
 pleas that rescission of the contract is unjust will not be heard, unless the
 beraching party opposes the rescission within a reasonable time after notice
 of rescission has been given.

 (c) When the contract can be divided into parts and one of the parts has been
 breached in a manner that gives cause for rescission of that part, the injured
 party is only entitled to rescind the part that has been breached; if the
 breach also constitutes a fundamental breach of the whole contract, the
 injured party is entitled to rescind the part which has been breached or the
 whole contract.


  Right to Rescind

 8. Rescission of a contract will be by notice by the injured party, within a
 reasonable time after he has learned of the breach, to the breaching party;
 however, in the case specified in section 7(b) and in every other case in
 which the injured party has given an extension of time for performance of the
 contract, notice or rescission will be given within a reasonable time after
 the extension has expired.


  Rescission Procedure




pd4ml evaluation copy. visit http://pd4ml.com
 9. (a) When a contract is rescinded, the breaching party will restore to the
 injured party what he has received thereunder or - if restitution is
 impossible or unreasonable or the injured party so chooses - pay him the value
 thereof; and the injured party will restore to the breaching party what he has
 received under the contract or - if restitution is impossible or unreasonable
 or the injured party so chooses - pay him the value thereof.

 (b) When part of a contract is rescinded, the provisions of subsection (a)
 will apply to what the parties received under that part.


  Restitution After Rescission




 Article Three: Compensation



 10. The injured party is entitled to compensation for the damage caused to him
 by the breach and its consequences and which the breaching party foresaw or
 should have foreseen, at the time the contract was made, as probable
 consequences of the breach.


  Right to Compensation



 11. (a) When an obligation to supply or receive any property or service has
 been broken and the contract is rescinded by reason of the breach, the injured
 party will - without proof of damage - be entitled to compensation in the
 amount of the difference between the consideration for the property or service
 under the contract and its value on the date of the contract's rescission.

 (b) When an obligation to pay a sum of money has been broken, the injured
 party will - without proof of damage - be entitled to compensation in amount
 of the interest on the sum in arrears from the date of the breach to the date
 of payment, at the full rate under the Adjudication of Interest Law 1961,
 unless the court prescribes a different rate.


  Compensation Without Proof of Damage



pd4ml evaluation copy. visit http://pd4ml.com
 12. The provisions of section 11 will not derogate from the right of the
 injured party to compensation for damage proved under section 10; however, if
 the consideration in respect of the obligation that was breached was
 unreasonable or if there was no consideration at all, then the court may
 reduce the compensation to the amount provided in section 11.


  Reservation of Rights

 13. When the breach of contract has caused other than pecuniary damage, the
 court may award compensation for that damage at the rate it deems appropriate
 under the circumstances of the case.


  Compensation for Non Pecuniary Damage



 14. (a) The breaching party will not be liable to pay compensation under
 Sections 10, 12 and 13 for damage which the injured party could have prevented
 or mitigated by reasonable measures.

 (b) When the injured party has incurred reasonable expenses or undertook
 reasonable liabilities in order to prevent or mitigate damage, the breaching
 party shall indemnify him therefor, whether or not the damage was in fact
 prevented or mitigated; if the expenses or liabilities were unreasonable, the
 breaching party will indemnify the injured party to the extent reasonable
 under the circumstances of the case.


  Mitigation of Damage

 15. (a) If the parties agreed in advance on the rate of compensation
 (hereinafter: "agreed compensation"), compensation will be as agreed, without
 proof of damage; however, the court may reduce the compensation if it finds
 that it was set without any reasonable relation to the damage which could be
 foreseen, at the time the contract was made, as a probable consequence of the
 breach.
  Liquidated Damages

 (b) An agreement on agreed compensation will not, by itself, derogate from the
 right of the injured party to claim in its place compensation under sections



pd4ml evaluation copy. visit http://pd4ml.com
 10 to 14, or from any other remedy for breach of contract.

 (c) For the purposes of this article, sums which the breaching party paid to
 the injured party before the breach and which the parties agreed in advance
 should be forfeited to the injured party, are deemed to be agreed
 compensation.



 16. In setting the amount of compensation, no sum which the injured party
 received, or is entitled to receive by reason of the breach of contract under
 a contract of insurance will be taken into account.


  Compensation and Insurance



                                       Chapter Three： Miscellaneous




 Chapter Three： Miscellaneous



 17. When a party to a contract indicates his intention not to perform it, or
 when it appears from the circumstances that he will be unable or unwilling to
 perform it, the other party is entitled to the remedies under this law even
 before the time set for the performance of the contract; however, in making an
 enforcement order the court will not order that an obligation be carried out
 before the time set for its performance.


  Anticipatory Breach



 18. (a) Was the breach of a contract the result of circumstances which the
 breaching party was not aware of nor should have been aware of at the time the
 contract was concluded, or which he did not foresee nor should have foreseen
 and which he could not have avoided, and if the performance of the contract
 under these circumstances is impossible or fundamentally different from what
 was agreed between the parties, the breach will not give cause for enforcement
 of the contract or for compensation.

 (b) In the cases specified in subsection (a), the court may - whether or not


pd4ml evaluation copy. visit http://pd4ml.com
 the contract has been rescinded - require each party to restore to the other
 party what he has received under the contract, or, at the choice as provided
 in section 9, to pay him the value thereof, and to require the breaching party
 to indemnify the injured party for expenses reasonably incurred and
 liabilities reasonably undertaken by him for performance of the contract, all
 if and insofar as the court deems just under the circumstances of the case.


  Exemption by Reason of Constraint or Frustration of Contract

 19. If the injured party has, in consequence of the contract, received any
 property of the breaching party and he must return it, the injured party will
 have a lien on that property to the extent of the sums due him from the
 breaching party in consequence of the breach.


  Lien

 20. Mutual debts of the parties under this law may be set off.


  Set off

 21. (a) Notice under this law will be given in the manner determined by the
 parties, and in the absence of such determination by registered post or in
 some other manner customary under the circumstances of the case.

 (b) An injured party, who has given notice as provided in subsection (a) and
 who has reason to believe that the notice reached its destination in time, may
 rely on it even if it was delayed or it has not arrived at all.


  Notice

 22. (a) This law will not derogate from the powers of the Court to grant a
 declaratory judgment, a provisional or permanent mandatory or restraining
 order, an interim decision or any other relief.

 (b) The provisions of this law. will apply when no law that regulates labor
 relations or any other law contains special provisions on the matter in
 question.


  Reservation of Laws



pd4ml evaluation copy. visit http://pd4ml.com
 23. Articles 106 to 111 of the Ottoman Code of Civil Procedure of 2nd Rejeb
 1296 (June 21, 1879) are hereby repealed.


  Repeal

 24. In matters dealt with by this law, Article 46 of the Palestine Order in
 Counci11922-1947 will not apply.


  Independence of Law

 25. This law will come into effect on March 27, 1971; contracts made prior to
 this Law coming into effect will continue to be governed by the previous Law.


  Commencement and Transitional Provisions




 Golda Meir Yaacov S. Shapiro Shneur Zalman Shazar

 Prime Minister Minister of Justice President of the State of Israel




 Passed by the Knesset on the 17th Kislev, 5731 ( 15th December, 1970) and
 published in Sefer Ha-Chukkim No.610 of the 26th Kislev, 5731 (24th December,
 1970), p. 16; the Bill and an Explanatory Note were published in Hatza'ot Chok
 No. 857 of 5729, p. 396.




pd4ml evaluation copy. visit http://pd4ml.com
