                          CHAPTER ONE:      General Provisions

Definitions.     1. (a) In this Law-
                 "breach" means an act or omission in contravention of a contract;
                 "injured party" means a person entitled to performance of a contract
                 which has been broken;
                 "enforcement" means enforcement by an order for the discharge of
                 a monetary obligation or some other mandatory order or by a re-
                 straining order , and includes enforcement by an order for the repair
                 or removal of the consequences of the breach;
                 "damage" includes prevention of profit.
                     (b) Every reference in this law to the breach of a contract shall be
                 taken to include a breach of any of its obligations.

Remedies of      2. Where a contract has been broken, the injured party is entitled to
injured          claim its enforcement or to rescind the contract, and in addition to or
party.           in lieu of one of the said remedies he is entitled to compensation, all
                 as provided in this Law.


                               CHAPTER Two:     Remedies

                       ARTICLE ONE:    Enforcement of Contract

Right of         3. The injured party is entitled to enforcement of the contract unless
enforcement.     one of the following obtains:
                    (1) the contract is impossible of performance;
                     (2) enforcement of the contract consists in compelling the doing
                         or acceptance of personal work or a personal service;
                    (3) implementation of the enforcement order requires an unreason-
                          able amount of supervision on behalf of a court or an execution
                         office;
                    (4) enforcement of the contract in the circumstances of the case
                          is unjust.

Conditions       4. The Court may make enforcement of the contract conditional upon
of               fulfilment of the obligations of the injured party or upon assurance of
enforcement,     their fulfilment or upon other conditions necessarily resulting from the
                 contract in the circumstances of the case.

Enforcement      5. Where an enforcement order is made in respect of an obligation to
in the case of   transfer the ownership of or a right in property and the transfer re-
transaction      quires registration in a register kept under any enactment, the regis-
requiring
registration.    tration shall be made by virtue of the enforcement order and in accord-
                 ance with its provisions as if it were made on the application of the
                 parties.
                             ISRAEL LAW REVIEW                          [Is.LR. Vol. B.


                      ARTICLE Two:    Rescission of Contract

Definition.   6. For the purposes of this article, "fundamental breach" means a
              breach as to which it may be assumed that a reasonable person would
              not have entered into the contract had he foreseen the breach and its
              consequences, or a breach as to which it has been agreed in the contract
              that it shall be regarded as fundamental; a sweeping stipulation in a
              contract making breaches fundamental without differentiating between
              them is invalid unless it was reasonable at the time the contract was
              made.

Right to      7. (a) The injured party is entitled to rescind the contract if the
rescind,      breach thereof is fundamental.
                  (b) Where the breach of the contract is not fundamental, the in-
              jured party may rescind the contract if he has first given the person in
              breach an extension of time for its performance and the contract has
              not been performed within a reasonable time after giving of exten-
              sion, unless in the circumstances of the case rescission of the contract
              is unjust; the plea that rescission of the contract is unjust shall not be
              heard unless the person in breach opposes the rescission within a reason-
              able time after notice of rescission is given.
                  (c) Where the contract is severable into parts and one of the parts
              has been broken in a manner giving cause for rescission of that part,
              the injured party is only entitled to rescind the part which has been
              broken; if the breach constitutes also a fundamental breach of the
              whole contract, the injured party is entitled to rescind the part which
              has been broken or the whole contract.

Rescission    8. Rescission of the contract shall be by notice by the injured party,
procedure.    within a reasonable time after he learnt of the breach, to the person in
              breach; however, in the case referred to in section 7 (b) and in every
              other case in which the injured party has given an extension of time
              for performance of the contract, notice of rescission shall be given with-
              in a reasonable time after the extension of time has expired.
Restitution   9. (a) Where the contract has been rescinded, the person in breach
after         shall restore to the injured party what he has received thereunder or,
              if restitution is impossible or unreasonable or the injured party so
              chooses, shall pay him the value thereof; and the injured party shall
              restore to the person in breach what he has received under the contract,
              or, if restitution is impossible or unreasonable or the injured party so
              chooses, shall pay him the value thereof.
                  (b) Where part of the contract has been rescinded, the provisions
              of subsection (a) shall apply to what the parties have received under
              that part.
No. 1, 19731                       LEGISLATION


                           ARTICLE THREE:    Compensation

Right to         10. The injured party is entitled to compensation for the damage
compen-         caused to him by the breach and its consequences and which the person
sation.
                in breach foresaw or should have foreseen, at the time the contract was
                made, as a probable consequence of the breach.

Compen-         11. (a) Where an obligation to supply or receive any property or
sation          service has been broken and the contract is rescinded by reason of the
without         breach, the injured party shall, without proof of damage, be entitled
proof of
damage.         to compensation in the amount of the difference between the consi-
                deration for the property or service under the contract and its value
                on the date of rescission of the contract.
                     (b) Where an obligation to pay a sum of money has been broken,
                the injured party shall, without proof of damage, be entitled to com-
                pensation in the amount of the interest on the sum in arrears from the
                date of the breach to the date of payment, at the full rate under the
                Adjudication of Interest Law, 5721-1961, unless the Court has pres-
                cribed a different rate.

Saving of       12. The provisions of section 11 shall not derogate from the right of
right.          the injured party to compensation for damage proved under section 10;
                however, if the consideration in respect of the obligation that has been
                broken was unreasonable, or if there was no consideration at all, the
                Court may reduce the compensation to the amount indicated in sec-
                tion 11.

Compen-         13. Where the breach of contract has caused other than pecuniary
sation for      damage, the Court may award compensation for that damage at the
non-pecuniary
                rate it deems appropriate in the circumstances of the case.
damage.
Mitigation      14. (a) The person in breach shall not be liable to pay compensation
of damage.      under sections 10, 12 and 13 for damage which the injured party could
                have prevented or reduced by reasonable measures.
                      (b) Where the injured party has incurred reasonable expenses or
                contracted reasonable liabilities for the prevention or reduction of
                damage, the person in breach shall indemnify him therefor, whether
                or not the damage was in fact prevented or reduced; if the expenses
                or liabilities were unreasonable, the person in breach shall be liable to
                indemnify the injured party to the extent reasonable in the circumstances
                of the case.

Agreed          15. (a) Where the parties have agreed in advance on the rate of com-
compen-         pensation (such compensation hereinafter referred to as "agreed com-
sation.         pensation"), compensation shall be as agreed, without proof of dam-
                age; however, the Court may reduce the compensation if it finds that
                it was fixed without any reasonable relation to the damage which could
                be foreseen, at the time the contract was made, as a probable conse-
                quence of the breach.
                               ISRAEL LAW REVIEW                           [Is.L.R. Vol. 8.

                     (b) An agreement as to agreed compensation shall not by itself
                derogate from the right of the injured party to claim compensation
                under sections 10 to 14 in lieu thereof or from any other remedy for
                breach of contract.
                     (c) For the purposes of this article, sums which the person in
                breach paid to the injured party before the breach and which the parties
                agreed in advance should be forfeited to the injured party are deemed
                to be agreed compensation.

Compen-         16. In fixing the amount of compensation, no sum which by reason of
sation          the breach of contract the injured party has received or is entitled to
and             receive under a contract of insurance shall be taken into account.
insurance.


                            CHAPTER THREE:     Miscellaneous
Anticipatory    17.   Where a party to the contract indicates his intention not to perform
breach,         it or where it appears from the circumstances that he will be unable
                or unwilling to perform it, the other party is entitled to the remedies
                under this Law even before the time fixed for performance of the
                contract; but the Court shall not in making an enforcement order,
                direct that an obligation shall be carried out before the time fixed for
                its performance.

Exemption       18. (a) Where the breach of contract is the result of circumstances
by reason of    which at the time of making the contract the person in breach did not
constraint or   know of or foresee and need not have known of or foreseen, and which
frustration
of contract.    he could not have avoided, and performance of the contract under
                these circumstances is impossible or fundamentally different from what
                was agreed between the parties, the breach shall not give cause for
                enforcement of the contract or for compensation.
                      (b) In the cases referred to in subsection (a), the Court may,
                whether or not the contract has been rescinded, require each party to
                restore to the other party what he has received under the contract or,
                at his choice as provided in section 9, to pay him the value thereof,
                and require the person in breach to indemnify the injured party for
                expenses reasonably incurred and liabilities reasonably contracted by
                him for the performance of the contract, all if and insofar as the
                Court deems it just to do so in the circumstances of the case.

Lien.           19. Where in consequence of the contract the injured party has re-
                ceived any property of the person in breach which he must return, the
                injured party shall have a lien on such property to the extent of the
                sums due to him from the person in breach, in consequence of the
                breach.

Set-off.        20. Mutual debts of the parties under this Law may be set off.
No. 1, 1973]                      LEGISLATION

Provisions     21. (a) Notice under this Law shall be given in the manner deter-
as to          mined by the parties, and in the absence of such a determination, by
notice.        registered post or in some other manner customary in the circumstances
               of the case.
                     (b) An injured party who has given notice as provided in sub-
               section (a) and who has reason to believe that the notice reached its
               destination in time may rely on it even if its arrival was delayed or it
               has not arrived at all.
Saving         22. (a) This Law shall not derogate from the power of the Court to
of laws.       grant a declaratory judgment, a mandatory or restraining order (whe-
               ther provisional or permanent), an interim decision or any other relief.
                     (b) The provisions of this Law shall apply where no Law regulat-
               ing labour relations or any other Law contains special provisions for the
               matter in question.

Repeal.        23. Articles 106 to 111 of the Ottoman Code of Civil Procedure of the
               2nd Rejeb, 1296 (21st June, 1879) are hereby repealed.

Autarky of     24. In matters dealt with by this Law, article 46 of the Palestine
Law.           Order-in-Council, 1922-1947, shall not apply.

Commence-      25. This Law shall come into force on the 1st Nisan, 5731 (27th
ment and       March, 1971); contracts made before the coming into force of this
transitional   Law shall continue to be governed by the previous law.
provisions.
